Welcome!  :-)

qooxdoo is one of the most comprehensive and innovative Open Source AJAX 
frameworks. It is a multipurpose framework that includes support for 
professional JavaScript development, a state-of-the-art GUI toolkit and 
high-level client-server communication.


License

qooxdoo may be used under the terms of either the GNU Lesser General Public 
License (LGPL) or the Eclipse Public License (EPL). As a recipient of qooxdoo, 
you may choose which license to receive the code under.

Please make sure you understand the dual license of qooxdoo and the rights and 
obligations that come with it. See the top-level LICENSE file for more details.


Framework

qooxdoo is entirely class-based and tries to leverage the features of 
object-oriented JavaScript. It is fully based on namespaces and does not 
modify or extend native JavaScript types. Most modern browsers are 
supported (e.g. Firefox, Internet Explorer and Opera; Safari soon) and it 
is free of memory leaks. It comes with a comprehensive API reference, that 
is auto-generated from Javadoc-like comments and from the syntax tree 
representing the code. The fast and complete JavaScript parser not only 
allows for doc generation, but is an integral part of the automatic build 
process that makes optimizing, compressing, linking and deployment of 
custom applications very user-friendly.


GUI Toolkit

Despite being a pure JavaScript framework, qooxdoo is quite on par with 
GUI toolkits like Qt or SWT when it comes to advanced yet easy to implement 
user interfaces. It offers a full-blown set of widgets that are hardly 
distinguishable from elements of native desktop applications. Full built-in 
support for keyboard navigation, focus and tab handling and drag & drop is 
provided. Dimensions can be specified as static, auto-sizing, stretching, 
percentage, weighted flex or min/max or even as combinations of those. 
All widgets are based on powerful and flexible layout managers which are a 
key to many of the advanced layout capabilities. Interface description is 
done programmatically in JavaScript for maximum performance.

No HTML has to be used and augmented to define the interface. The qooxdoo 
user does not even have to know CSS to style the interface. Clean and 
easy-to-configure themes for appearance, colors or icons allow for a 
full-fledged styling that even supports runtime switching.


AJAX

While being a client-side and server-agnostic solution, the qooxdoo project 
does include complete implementations of RPC servers (currently Java and PHP) 
to demonstrate some of its advanced client-server communcation. An abstract 
transport layer supports queues, timeouts and implementations via 
XMLHttpRequest, Iframes and Scripts. Like the rest of qooxdoo it fully 
supports event-based programming which greatly simplifies asynchronous 
communication.


Learn more

For further information about qooxdoo, please point your browser to
http://qooxdoo.org/about

For a step-by-step introduction to qooxdoo application development, please 
see the instructions in the user manual at
http://qooxdoo.org/documentation/user_manual

Have fun!  ;-)
